---
layout: index
---
Meet the mechanical man
----------------------------------

There he was, gleaming in places, rusty in others. Jumping and
whistling and frolicking to the general merriment of the public. 
And I'm using *he* liberally here, since I'm talking about a
mechanical man. A mechanical being. A mechanical... gimmick that looks
like a man.

And the public... filled with brothers, of my own race, of the other
races that have been oppressed since they arrived here or since the
paleface newcomers arrived. Because my name is Fulgencio
Rivera and  I was born and raised in California from a Guatemalan mother and
a Mexican father. That was twenty and three years ago. 

Now I'm here, at the Circus of the People, amusing myself while I bid
my time to get hold of the mechanical man, which is the main reason
I am here. Here being Freedomville, formerly called Jacksonville, as
in Andrew Jackson, a paleface and slaver long dead and now definitely
buried. 

And now being the tenth year after the revolution that produced the
All Races People's Republic of Florida. 

But a free man has to earn a living, too. That is why I am after Jos√©,
the mechanical man. A real marvel of the people's republic
ingenuity. Just look at him. All by himself, he has hushed everyone in
this dusty, hot, humid and forsaken place. How can I describe it? I
lack words, because there is nothing like it in the whole wide
world. I can try, even as I received only the barest education before
the capitalist system started to exploit my juvenile skills back there
in awful California of awful America.

But I am jumping over myself. Let me tell you how it all started.

Who wants a mechanical man?
-------------------------------------------

This story starts in Mobile, a rough and tumble border town of the
United All Races People's Republic  of Florida. That's a pretty long
name for a place that starts at Pascagoula and and goes no further
than Brunswick, if only our people can have their way. Which they
will, I have no doubt. Every dawning day brings new brothers to our
new republic, brothers of all races, creeds and dispositions. 

I was there, taking a walk in the docks, minding my own business,
which was precisely what I was looking for at that moment of the day,
looking for a hire, somebody who needed a quick mind and a strong pair
of arms. I was dodging the sun and keeping myself in the shade,
because the season was warm. What was it? September? August? Can't
tell. Even less so now that all months have changed their names to
something that does not have gods or umpirators in them. Something
like that. That means that people no longer know the month they are
in. Not that they cared, anyways.

So, it was hot and these two dandy types came up to me, dressed to the
nines and sweating as if they were going to melt. Standing out as a
sore thumb, if you ask me, no way to walk in the docks crying "Mug
me"; adding insult to injury they were also crying yelling "I'm a capitalist
pig". But I was minding my own business, which is not related to those
guys, which were nondescript besides what I have already said. They
probably had not been mugged yet because one of the dandies had his
demeanor bolted on, instead of having been born into it. Strong but
nondescript too. Or nondescript for a those-fists-mean-business
meaning of the word. 

Was not afraid, though, although they also seemed to avoid the sun and
their caps were set just so you could not really see their face. So
that you could not describe it later. That is why they were
nondescript. Hey, said that already. You weren't listening?

A rolling teakettle with ears
---------------------------

Think about a teakettle. You got it? That's it, thicker on the bottom
and not so much on top. Yes, Count, we all know you served tea to
royalty in your castle in Central Europe. Alright, south by southwest
Europe. Whatever. You picture that, right? That would be a milk pail
for you, Gummy. Please stop smiling or I'll never ever say your name
aloud again. You all got the milk pail? Well, now put it on top of the
teakettle. A small one. Two milk pails for you, Gummy. Lost you? Aw,
what the hell, just go to sleep again. 

Lost you all? Big, roundish, thick-on-the-bottom, metallic upside-down
bucket with another on top, body and head. Which goes to account for
the name mechanical man, but when I first saw him that what I though
about. It was even steaming a little bit, because he's not actually
mechanical, you see, it's also fuel-powered ad some electrickal cables
to spark it to motion whenever it's needed. Or something like that. I
didn't built it, I just carry it from one place to another. 

And, you see, it ain't have any legs. I don't know why, man, but those
four wheels it has on the bottom just save me a lot of work. Yes, it
did have some sort of midget legs at the beginning, but they made him,
er, it, a piece of larry on stilted legs so they were ripped of and
substituted by this bogie rigged from, gee, I really don't know. A toy
train? A streetcar?

Of course the legs didn't go to waste! They were used for a sideshow
in the ten-in-one called Robbie Lee, the Half-Mechanical Wonder of the
New Century!

So what we have here is a teakettle with ears on wheels. A mechanical
hobo. A hobo mechanical organism? Count, I like that. Cut it down to
hoborg and you've got it! Pass the bottle, man, don't hog it all for yourself!

Arms? Gee, I forgot that. Of course it did have arms! Just two of
them, yes. I always wondered why. Come to build a thing with arms, you
could make it with three or four or what! But no, it had to be two and
they looked like those in mannequins, with a joint in the elbow and
another at the shoulder and a grip at the end. No hands, just a
grip. I didn't try to wrestle with him, no way. It was four hundred
pounds of iron and copper. The grips were made with copper, and they
could be so delicate as to grasp a pigeon egg without breaking
it. Great machine, I tell you. 

Yes, let's make it dance for a while, let me just get my driving box. 
Eyes. Did I say anything about the whole fucking *face*? No proper
face to speak of, really, but as soon as there's something on top of
the body, not that it's a proper body either, but you get my
drift... so if that's a *head* the grilled gap on the bottom, that
would be a mouth, right? On top of that a strut could be the nose, and
two holes covered with glass the eyes. Some dummy painted two lines on
top of that that could go for eyebrows, and then two holes on the side
of the head with two half-moons behind them. It could move left and
right, that's it. It made a screeching noise, like a door closing. A
teensy door closing. 

When it walked, or rather rolled, there was smoke coming out of its
neck. Some dummy put it initially in the ass, but it made the eyes of
whoever was driving it sting, so somebody else rigged it to have the
exhaust as hight as possible. Not in the head, it wouldn't look
healthy, people would keep saying "Your dummy is *burning*!".

Anyway, the noise. It could honk, did I tell ya? Yes, he can do stuff
all of its own when he wants. When there's something in front, I don't
know how the hell it does that, but he notices and honks the same way
that he avoids to crash into people by just stopping. How do I know
how it does that? Am I a fucking mechanician?


The second greatest show on earth arrives in New Orleans
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

So we were going back to the United States of America. What was left
of them, 
anyways. They still seemed all too happy to shoot the odd border
patrol or even taking an useless pop at an airship, but was mostly
happy to get rid of second-rate citizens, or so it seemed. 

That was apparently not enough to restore the broken railway links
between the Republic and the US. Beyond Mobile, the railroad was blown
up to, at least, Red Bluff. So the easiest way to go from here to
there, from the real Land of the Free to the purported Land of the
Free, was to sail from Pensacola. 

So it was Noah's Ark all over again, as the circus manager said at
least one zillion times before, during and after boarding. Not that we
did not know already that all that Noah stuff was a big steaming pile
of elephant dung, but if you put lions and horses and bearded women
and whatnots inside a steamer they're gonna get mighty nervous, I tell
ya. So no way Noah would have made it for forty days. Unless he got him a
circus manager like we did. Friend of saying platitudes, but a good organizer
all the same.  

Yes, I would have preferred an airship. The circus comisario was on its
way to New Orleans already. But, pray tell, how the fuck do you expect
to put an elephant in an airship? You did it once? Really? Why didn't
you stick a couple of wings and a rocket up its butt and made it fly?
No way, man, absolutely no way you could put the thirty-odd carriages
in airships, you would have needed so many of them. Yes, you love
airships, Commodore, that's a fact.

It was my first chance to actually drive the mech. Aw, man, we are
calling it a hoborg, but just from a couple of nights ago! Just let me
call it the way I've always done. You want to hear the story? As I was
saying, you already know it has to be driven. On its own, he is barely
able to repeatedly bump into a wall or wander aimlessly like a chicken
whose head has just been bitten by a geek. Or a frog, yes,
Frog-Eatin'.  Grease was the one usually driving the mech, but he was
too busy disengaging carriages from the tractor, securing them on the
deck and trying at the same time to put the poor beasts at ease. The
space occupied by the mech was needed for something so I got to drive
it for the first time. 

No, it does not even come close to driving a horse and I ain't never
piloted a car. It's a metal box with a wheel and several levers and
knobs. I was told to never get farther than a dozen feet from from it,
this wheel for turning, this lever forward, this knob to make it
faster. Grease gave it to me, and I swear it turned its teakettle head
to look at me. Yes, it does that. It's not only levers and knobs and
whatnots. I still don't know what half the driving box does, but I do
know that the fucking mech has a mind of its own. No soul, Blackie, no
soul, man. No man's got a soul, nobody. It's humbug the American
capitalistas have been feeding you. So how come a fucking mechanical
contraption have a soul if not even you have it!  But, boy, does it
have a mind. A cat's mind, if you ask me.

So after checking me out he mostly did what it was told, turn right,
turn left, up the plank, to the prow. To tell you the truth, it kind
*wanted* to get to the very end of the prow; every time I veered away
to let it rest near the castle it kind of tugged to the right, as if
wanting to be there, looking at the sea. Ever seen the sea? Yes,
Count, you watched it for hours on end from your own boat. It's mighty
beautiful. No wonder even a mech would want to stand where he could watch it. Or maybe it
was just a bit cranky. Who knows. He could not have gone there,
anyways, because the space was taken by a bulk covered with a
tarp. Nothing related with the circus, it should have been there
before us, because the tarp had a different color, ours were green,
this one was tan. 

I didn't have the time to stay around to watch it any more because the
circus manager grabbed me again and had me running errands, putting
things in cabins, covering the carriages with tarpaulins and hauling
supplies belowdecks. Which is a nice word that somebody shouted while
we were doing there and means in the basement of the ship. 

I got myself a cabin with Shorty and one of the windjammers. Which I
only discovered after I woke up to the sound of explosions
somewhere. Some mighty thunderstorm might be happening, but that was
unlikely since the boat did not seem to be swinging too
much. Something completely different might be going on, and I got
dressed and went up to the deck to check it out.

Attack on the high seas
------------------------------

When I arrived at the main deck, everything seemed to be quiet for a
few seconds. The sea was calm and deep blue, the sky only sported a
few wispy clouds, and the ship was rocked just a bit back and forth. I
took a breath and thought about going back to my cabin to properly
finish the dream I was dreaming when I heard a second explosion and
started to see what looked like the whole roustabout crew running to
both ends of the ship. Some of them were pointing up and above, a bit
to the left, "fore and port", somebody was yelling.

It was difficult to make out, but a few hundred of feet in that
direction was an airship. It was mostly painted in blue, sky blue but
its cabin had some struts coming out of it that were pointing directly
at us and apparently popping some rounds. 

"Some mark that has not been happy with our act, apparently." Ra√∫l the
ringmaster was by my side, smiling with part of his mouth and smoking
his pipe. I hadn't heard his coming, as I never did. This guy was the
master of the ring and made himself heard and seen but his special
skill was to make that happen only when and if he wanted. 

The mystery of the tarp to the front of the ship was soon revealed
along with the long tube that was below it. It was quite obviously a
gun, and it didn't even need to be loaded; it had a big gunsight in
front of a seat which was quickly occupied by what I thought to be a
deck hand before. It didn't take long to have it shot; something came
out of it sprouting flames and unrolling a cable while the guy manning
the gunsight was moving a stick and turning knobs from time to time. 

"Looks like we are going to hunt us a big fat evil capitalista whale"
Ra√∫l said, the crooked smile never leaving its face while the harpoon
wiggled towards the airship, which seemed to be getting farther and
farther up. Small geysers raised above the otherwise quiet surface of
the water, and we all seemed like the public of a lion taming act
without a jail, just looking on as if the air was protection enough to
what could happen. I knew it was not. And I knew I had to protect what
could be my property, so I run to the mech, which was just a few feet
behind the harpoon gun, unfastened it from the deck, retrieved the
driving box and started to move it.

It was stupid, of course. But nobody was there to tell me that at that
moment. No, it didn't sink, Gummy, you moron. Can't you see it is
right there. And please stop crying!


Wit the hobos around the fire
--------------

"I'm gonna get me one of those dummies, I'm gonna do it" The first
hobo announced, with just a hint of a threat in his voice, veiled by
the amount of moonshine he had already taken. Jos√© sat slumped a few
steps away from the fire, out of fuel or simply not working. Fulgencio
just spat at the fire, raising a small flame that made Jos√© look alive
for a brief moment. 

Fulgencio had found this group in a rail yard in Tallahassee when
descending from a train, trying to be unobtrusive. No way to do it when
being trailed by a two hundred and fifty pound waking cash register,
and he was immediately hailed by them and asked to join them by the
fire. Liquor was passed, bread and cheese shared, and histories
and local tips swapped. Then, more alcohol had flowed and everything
became a bit blurry. 